Falcor Website
==============

To Develop the Site
-------------------

1. Clone the repo
2. Install jekyll: `gem install jekyll`
3. Install required node modules: `npm install`.
4. Install gulp globally with `npm install -g gulp`.
5. Run `gulp serve` and wait for the build to finish and pop up a page

Then change any files you like and it will notify you, autorebuild less/html/md, and refresh as necessary.

When you're ready to push, just commit everything and push to gh-pages as usual. If you're worried, you can also do a manual rebuild before pushing with `gulp build-all`.

Site Layout
-----------

For the most part, the layout of the site content can be done any way you like. All items on the navigation that reference a page id (currently all except API docs) will always link to the correct url, regardless of that page's place in the folder structure.

### Homepage
The homepage content is split into a number of markdown files to make it easy to edit despite jekyll's template limitations.
- `_includes/tagline.txt` contains the (plain) text displayed underneath the Falcor logo
- `_includes/homepage-key-feature-1` through 3 contain, form left to right, the three key feature snippets displayed right under the hero banner (the large black banner)
- `_includes/homepage.md` contains the main content (after the 3 key features widget) for the rest of the homepage

### Other Pages

### API Docs
The API docs are entirely autogenerated and are placed in the `doc` folder at the root of the repo. They are automatically built into the site since they are based on a custom JSDoc template. The `doc` folder should not need to be altered in this repo in any way.

New Page Creation
-----------------

There are currently 3 layout templates that new pages generally should be based on:
- `plain-page`: As seen in the getting started pages, these are just a plain markdown file rendered at an easy to read width within the main site framework.
- `toc-page`: Similar to a plain page, but includes a table of contents on the right and will track the user's location as they scroll through the document. Note that you **must** include the following at the top of your markdown file for the page to generate the table of contents, due to limitations in jekyll's markdown renderer in github pages:

    ```
    * Table of contents. This line is required to start the list.
    {:toc}
    ```
  Please note that the automatic location tracking tends to skip a section if it's extremely short, because there's almost no scroll position where the section is considered current. This also happens if it's close to the bottom and either it or the bottom section is very short.
- `video-page`: give the page a youtube_id entry in the [front matter](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/ "Front Matter") and it will embed that video in the page above any content you add to the markdown document itself.

New pages can be placed anywhere, though the directory structure determines their url, so it's probably best to group related pages together in a directory.

To make a new page, just
1. Create a new yourpagename.md file in an appropriate location
2. Add the recomended [front matter](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/ "Front Matter") (listed below), 3. Add it to the navigation in `_data/navigation.yml`, likely by its `id` (see below)
4. Add any content you want. You can break the page into pieces and use [includes](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/templates/#tags "Includes") and all the other gh-pages supported jekyll features as usual.

### Front Matter for New Pages
The following [front matter](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/ "Front Matter") is recommended on every new page:
```
---
layout: Required. Likely one of `plain-page`, `toc-page`, or `video-page`.
id: some_unique_id_for_this_page_to_reference_in_the_navigation_yml_file
title: A custom page title (plain text). Will be automatically prepended with the sitewide title prefix. Defaults to the value in _config.yml if left empty for a page. For safety, I recommend enclosing it in quotes.
description: A custom description of this page, in plain text, preferably 1-2 sentences. Will be used in social sharing widgets and gets picked up by search engines. Defaults to the value specified in _config.yml if left empty for a page. For safety, I recommend enclosing it in quotes.

---
```


Page Crosslink Helper
---------------------
There's a simple link to page id helper you can use like this:
```
{% include link.to id="router" text="Falcor Router" %}
```

Where you can replace the id with any page's id, or even a variable (`id=site.data.my_favorite_page_id`), and it will always keep the correct url to that page, even if it's moved or renamed.


Code blocks
------------------

You can use triple tildes (~~~) with the language specified and your code will be automatically syntax highlighted!
The following general language types are available, and have distinct highlighting:
- default: specify any language other than the ones below (e.g. `js`, `css`, `html`, etc.).
- `shell`/`sh`/`bash`: terminal colors (green on black).
- `output`: a dark variant of the default highlighting theme so you can follow a user input examle with the server's response and have a contrasting but familiar theme. It attemps to autodetect language via the code prettify library, so you don't need to specify one.

Configuring the Navigation
--------------------------

Please see the documented code in `_data/navigation.yml` to configure the main top nav.

The navigation supports two levels (main and dropdown) currently. All ordering is based on the ordering in the `_data/navigation.yml` file itself.




TODO list
-----------------------------
- gather more data on and improve intro animation perf if possible
- add mobile-friendly ToC variant